Hello everyone and welcome to the section on pandas and this lecture will give you an introduction to
the pantless library.
So as I mentioned we'll get a quick introduction to pand this in this lecture.
We'll learn a bit about pand this history and then later on in this section we'll dive straight into
coding and learning how to use pandas in our Jupiter notebooks.
Afterwards at the end the section you'll get some example exercise to test your new skills.
So now that we understand the basics of python and umpire we can learn about the pandas library.
So it is pandas.
It's named after panel data and it was created by was MACKINNEY pandas was first created to help work
with data sets in Python for McKee's work in finance.
His place of employment.
So ever since the beginning pandas was created with financial data sets in mind which is perfect for
our use case.
In this course luckily Panas is now a large and popular open source library that's freely available
for all to use and contribute to.
Let's go through some of its main features.
As pointed out by the official Web site pantless has a fast and efficient data frame object for data
manipulation with integrated indexing.
And we'll be working on the difference a lot throughout the course.
We'll start off by learning about series and then we'll learn about data frames and data frames.
It's going to be our main workhorse when dealing with financial data sets.
Pand This also includes tools for reading and writing between in-memory data structures in different
formats.
It can read from CSP files text files Excel files sequel databases and even the fast HGF file format
and many more.
We'll also show you how you can use additional libraries such as the Panas data reader or QUANTRILL
to actually directly connect with financial data sets over the Internet.
We'll cover that in a feature section pandas also has great interaction with Python data visualization
libraries such as Matt Plup lib and we'll also discuss that in a future section when we talk about actually
visualizing her data.
More importantly pandas is highly optimized for performance with critical code paths written in C or
C so it's blazingly fast.
It also has the ability to Adoree or transform data with a powerful group by engine learning Pandurs
is fundamental to being able to easily work with the financial data sets that we will be using in this
course.
We'll first focus on learning about general Pandurs and then in a future section will focus on working
of time series data with pandas as well as working with visualization and Pandurs.
At the end of the section we'll have a quick exercise for you to test your skills.
All right let's get started.
I'll see you at the next lecture.